

1. ENV (Peltola)
- 
- 

2. ENV (3 Frame)
- Actions:
    Possibility 1:

    Gap Open Penalty
    Gap Extension Penalty

    - Match          (  )
    - Ins/Del        (  )

- State: 
    - Frame 1, 2, 3
    - Protein


IDEAS:
- Image Mapping
- NO IMAGE MAPPING -> Time Series Problem


Global = Start normal (end to end)
    - 

Glocal = Start at best starting spot
    - if no good starting position, force the alignment (matching)

Local = "best score possible" (Most matches possible):
    - Local alignment: In local alignment, instead of attempting to align the entire length of the sequences, 
    only the regions with the highest density of matches are aligned.


1 space = del = blosum - del error
2 space = match = blosum
3 space = insertion


* Load from network

Checker / Break Point - (Traceback)

Local = Greedy Glocal?


Goals/Suggestions for the PCSC Paper:
    - Suggest that we for now only go for Global alignment in order to prove the viability of the method
    - Start working towards Glocal (Semi Global) alignment after proving the viability
    - Local alignment method be another paper or at the next term due to complications with understanding the environment


POSSIBLE ACTIONS:
1. Change Frame: Shift to the next frame of reading (moving one base along the DNA sequence).

2. Match: Align a single nucleotide or codon to the corresponding amino acid in the protein sequence.

3. Mismatch: Align a nucleotide or codon to an amino acid that is not the expected one according to the current frame.

4. Insertion: Insert a gap in the alignment, representing a deletion in the DNA sequence relative to the protein sequence.

5. Deletion: Delete a character from the alignment, representing an insertion in the DNA sequence relative to the protein sequence.

6. Extension: Extend the alignment by one more nucleotide or codon.


'ATA' 'ATC' 'ATT' 'ATG'
  I     I     I     M

'ATA' 'ATC' 'ATT' 'ATG'
  TAA   TCA   TTA   TG..
   AAT   CAT   TAT   G...

  I     S     I     M
        *     *     

CCC CCC
 P   P 

CCC  CCC
 CCC  CCC
  CCC   CCC
  P    P

Max alignment score based on the reading frames that are 1-3 spaces apart.
According Zhang's 3 frame algorithm. You're constantly looking at the 3 reading frames and are attempting to pick the one with the best score.
So hypothetically speaking, we should be comparing 3 reading frames to 1 protein character at a time. And pick the one with the best score.


Reward Score = for agent 
    -> higher reward = closer results with 3 frame 
    -> reward agent based on how close it is to aligning with the protein sequence
    -> needs 3 frame alg

Aligntment Score = for the output (blosum bullsht)


Rules for Ins/Del:
    - gep and gop error
    - still lookup blosum





1   XXX XXX XXX XXX
2    XXX XXX XXX XXX
3     XXX XXX XXX XXX
     X  X  X  X  X  X


